you see a tsunami headed your way what
do you do well if you're a bank you're
going to put some money aside and I'm
going to show you why the banks are
doing that right now in today's video
we're going to talk about the situation
with the banks we're going to look at
what's happening in the economy and the
financial system as well my name is
David quintiri and what I do on this
channel is take all of this really
complicated stuff in the financial world
and I make it easy I show you what's
happening in the stock market
specifically I give you the indications
of what's actually happening in a cut
through all the madness so why don't we
start with that tsunami here we go you
thought I was kidding but here it is
we're looking at it at this time
believe it or not with Europe's Banks
bracing for a wave of defaults
I wasn't kidding about this look at it
now what they do is called loan loss
Provisions that's saving money for a
rainy day and they know that this rainy
day is coming
this isn't something that they just
decided to do for no reason it's because
of the pressure on borrowers as they say
here interest rates are a problem when
they go up you have a credit card at 20
interest that's going to crush people
the same with their variable anything
variable right now is a real issue a lot
of people in countries outside of the US
they don't have the opportunity to get
debt and extend that out 30 years 25
years you can't do that you have to get
it and then it resets every three to
five years and a lot of that debt is
coming up 2023 has come up already or
about two into 2024. it's a big problem
and that's the same thing with
commercial real estate it is always
shorter term so we've got to understand
where that weakness is and the
expectation that you can't stretch this
out too far there's going to be too many
defaults all of the banks believe that
they are going to have more losses that
they're going to have bankruptcies and
defaults and so that gives you two
things to think about number one the
consumer is not in a good position
that's very clear if the banks are
signaling this they know that the
consumer is not doing well if there are
a lot of defaults that means it's going
to affect the stock of these Banks and I
know boohoo you're not shedding a tier
for the banks but let me be clear Banks
employ a lot of people they employ a lot
of people the big towers you go to
downtown any any City those big towers
are occupied by the financial firms by
the accounting companies all these
things if suddenly
a lot of them are not working well then
they're going to not be able to afford
what they did before they're not going
to go out for lunch and use the services
and buy the stuff that's located right
around there and we saw it during 2020
when everybody was working from home
so many businesses started to shut down
I heard from many people
in Toronto underneath the financial
district there's something called path
and that path you know there's basically
a City Underground
so this City Underground has everything
you could imagine okay imagine a mall
completely underground they've got food
they've got clothing they've got
anything you can imagine that's under
there it was completely empty completely
empty the businesses maybe the car
whether it would be one coffee shop
Starbucks here maybe a bank was there
but nobody was coming in okay all the
other shops gone small businesses gone
eradicated because those financial
companies did they were having all their
employees work from home
so of course on a smaller scale that
will still impact them so watch that
Trend very clearly and what are we
seeing with these Financial companies
well that down line the red line there
that's going down that represents
deposits
and then the green line are the money
market funds look if you can get five
percent for a money market fund or you
can put your money in a savings account
giving you basically zero what I mean I
think I think I'm using a checking
account on one of my Banks I get zero
and if I was gonna to put it in a
savings account with that same bank I
mean they're trying to incentivize a
little let's just say one percent maybe
it's two percent if I'm lucky if I'm
lucky gotta keep a really high minimum
in fact my bank sent me mail
uh to my previous address by the way
they can't get that right
they sent me mail saying remember how we
told you you got to keep five grand in
your bank so that you don't have to pay
the thirty dollar fee oh now that's six
grand
I mean come on
it's basically
you know they're they're trying to keep
your money in the banks the money market
funds are getting all the attention it's
liquid but they're going to give you a
higher yield
and that's important very important
looking at the higher interest rates and
sluggish economy well that has fuel
European bankruptcies
the bankruptcies have searched the
highest level since 2015.
since 2015 beyond what we saw in 2020 a
lot of that you know moratoriums and you
know we're going to protect everybody
and so on yeah I get it
but one after the other after the other
of businesses going under isn't that a
big signal of a problem right now not
not 2020 not last year now in 2023
so we have to understand how serious
this is becoming
U.S plans new tariffs on food can metal
from China Germany and Canada so we know
with the tariffs last time around What
could
potentially result of this it could be
you know increasing tensions maybe they
say oh we want to support our own
businesses I get it certainly but look
at the prices that people have paid for
their Campbell Soup so really quickly I
mean they made it for some reason they
made this political but anyway ignore
that
by the way some people have tried to
suggest that I'm political and that you
couldn't be further from the truth
anyway Campbell's condensed tomato soup
unit price per can looking at this 1895
go back to 1895 all the way to the
present so for uh for like up until 1971
you know it's up it's down it's here and
there but not much movement but then
something happened in 1971 oops maybe we
uh decided to go through a debt
completely debt-based monetary system
and ever since then there's been a
problem with inflation it's never come
down and so we can see this something
that is real it's physical and we've
been using it since 1895. we have the
prices being tracked all the way through
and now they've gone completely Haywire
this is a shorter term uh chart and
better quality since the year 2000 and
what's been happening do you see see a
trend there do you see a trend now is
Campbell's responsible for this have
they increased their price to levels
that are unreasonable well it was you
know around that 30 to 40 Cent Mark per
can
during this time and now it's at let's
say a dollar twenty
it's several times more several times
more your wage though
since 2000 let's say 20 years has your
wage
you know maybe tripled
has your wage tripled or quadrupled in
20 years would most people's wage triple
or quadruple
maybe not I mean it's possible if you
were like if you got it at the entry
point and you were making a you know
entry-level job and now you become the
one of the executives certainly triple
quadruple but for most people that's not
the case
you know you can get raises you can get
bonuses yeah I get it but for a lot of
people it doesn't happen so the
inflation is there and it's not being
tracked it's not being
looked at properly and that's why I look
like to look at the Campbell Soup index
as just one way there's so many
different ways but in Europe right now
what are they feeling the food inflation
energy inflation was was the biggest
problem before and now it's food
inflation slow growing UK faces
Reckoning with over 2.6 trillion pound
debt pile it's the same by the way in
the United States and China look at what
we talked about fairly recently you've
got a problem with that debt
it's it's astronomical and what they're
doing here in China is they're trying to
shift that debt away to the provinces
they're saying you keep it over there in
the United States they're saying put
your head in the sand you shut up and
you don't look at it okay and every
other country is basically doing the
same thing you're not allowed to look at
that debt it's not real
okay it's like a you know a hypnotist
they're just telling people and they
just blame it on the blame it on the
previous guy it wasn't me I don't know
it wasn't but then that person said no
no it wasn't me it was a previous guy
they're always just blaming on the on
the previous guy okay it's just been
adding look at 1971 and understand how
important that was when we go out of you
know anything that that keeps you
Shackled down keeps these
you know Central Bankers shackle down of
course it's going to go to new extremes
and so as a result of that what do we do
do we do nothing do we just sit there
of course not we take action and we'll
talk about that in a second
um basically the debt is important
because as interest rates rise we've got
borrowing costs on top of that and that
makes it more difficult the United
States has to issue more debt they gotta
send out
um you know basically do these auctions
where they're allowing these investors
to buy up their bonds buy up their debt
they're going to put out a trillion
dollars worth a trillion dollars worth
is there enough appetite for it well if
there isn't they have to increase their
yields and what are you noticing right
now it's that the yields on the longer
term debt 10-year 30-year that's
increasing the levels we haven't seen in
a long time
if nobody's gonna buy it though or not
enough the Federal Reserve has to come
in and start the next round of
quantitative easing that's inflation my
friends not deflation as you've been
told over and over and over again now
there's a serious problem here of course
with the cash strapped consumers as I've
talked about over and over again you
will see the food prices front and
center right there's some other things
here I want to talk about it you can see
the UK households look to lock in Energy
prices as the crisis recedes yes
certainly uh what we can see right now
is that people are making a smart choice
but locking it in if they feel that okay
this is I'm comfortable with this price
let me lock it in we talked about that
in 2020 I had many replies from people
saying thank you thank you for telling
me to do this I ended up basically you
saved me because the price would have
been at a point it would have broken me
so I I'm really
so thankful to people who who were doing
that and to let me know I feel I feel
great about that I'm just sharing the
information but just to know that is
like makes me feel really good
um new research finds a majority of
consumers in the UK Germany and France
believe the economy won't improve in
2023 Shoppers reducing spend in half of
retail categories so you know the dining
out and all these other things it is
affecting people people are saying yeah
you know what maybe now not the right
time so they're putting off a lot of
purchases does that mean they're not
spending money of course they're
spending money but in certain cases
they're they're saying not at this time
or they're making other choices but the
thing is you know they're they're
they're like reducing their expenditure
in terms of like the stuff that they're
buying I'm gonna go away from the name
brand I'm gonna go with the no name but
they're still paying the same price they
were all right we just see that the
prices of everything have gone up so
suddenly
you know even something that was more
expensive than it was just not that long
ago seems reasonable compared to the
other thing isn't it crazy how that
happens and the shrinkflation on top of
it oh no don't talk about shrinkflation
then their narrative gets destroyed uh
oh
the whole deflation narrative or that
disinflation Germany's biggest companies
are ditching the Fatherland let's be
honest nobody wants to develop in these
countries anymore the technology for
like the stuff that they're building in
Germany is
the production long term potentially
isn't there a lot of other countries are
now getting up to speed in what they can
produce all the highest level technology
is being built in you know whether it's
most likely in Taiwan and other parts of
Asia and so that's where a lot of the
energy the money and and the future
growth is coming from it's not coming
from Europe
and I'm I say this to get people's heads
straight to realize that maybe we'll
talk about this in a sec maybe the area
you live or depend on is not the one
that you should remain in long term
okay I don't want to say it like that
but let's be let's be honest a third of
you can Ukraine's crop exports wiped out
after black C block so this means the
prices just know that you know you've
got for instance wheat coming out of
Ukraine that's going to Iran Iran could
erupt as they did before they couldn't
even get bread at one point it was
difficult to get bread because of this
one this initially was a problem other
countries as well they're shipping out
to all these places and we suddenly
found out as soon as that little
shipment stopped out of Ukraine which
countries are really heavily reliant on
their exports never a good thing as a
country diversify as a business
diversify and as people as human beings
we need to diversify too China's
surprise move on loan rates shows the
banks are under pressure this is going
on everywhere just showing you if the
banks are under pressure it means the
consumers are too and then just wanted
to highlight really quickly that if you
want like more of this type of stuff you
want to learn them
all of this and be able to communicate
with not just me but with over 1100
people that are like-minded while the
Discord has it all it's in the
description hit that link down below and
I will see you there along with by the
way giveaways coming giveaways on my
books potentially uh if I can figure it
out cash giveaways as well but you're
probably asking yourself case studies we
need to know what like what are people
doing so I just pulled up this example
in just one example just one thing don't
don't pigeonhole it this is Steve well
let me show you Steve
um I can show you this right here
I took a few notes as I watched the
video read the article
Steve he was living in New Jersey in his
sister's home he said you know this just
wasn't going well I don't like the way
my life is going and so on he's single
so in 2020 everyone had this idea that
we're gonna move out well he decides to
get a visa for Croatia he had visited
there before like that and so on well he
lives as a digital Nomad and he lives on
47 a day I don't know why they
calculated to 47 a day but essentially
his expenses let's just round it off
let's say it's 1500 bucks so he's able
to live on fifteen hundred dollars a
month
he's enjoying the slower pace of Life
he's enjoying the lowered cost of living
which he says is substantial and he's
gained my this is me saying this that
he's gained geographical freedom because
he decided to become a digital Nomad to
be employed
no like not restricted to where he was
now he can live wherever he wants he
chose Croatia and you know there's you
don't hear that too often the point is
he can just get up and go now of course
when you have a family when you have
different circumstances more difficult
but having that option to be able to
move is important and that's what we
talk about I've got information about
this on the Discord as well I want to
give you ideas and things that might
seem yeah that's difficult to hear I
don't want to pick up and go I got
family here I got business here I got
this and that but we've got to be
prepared and that's why I talk about
um you know making sure that your income
is not tied to where you are at any
given time it's so important so if
you're interested in that and by the way
um as a you know someone from the U.S if
you're going to leave the United States
you still have to pay tax on that but
there are some exceptions there's some
you know IRS details go speak to the the
right people but I just wanted to
include this here if you're interested
it's a publication 54 tax guide for U.S
citizens and Resident aliens abroad
like you got to know the details you got
to know the circumstances so read up on
that all the links are in the
description under the sources I'm trying
to bring you the resources trying to
bring you just you know the information
that I think is most valid and most
helpful to you and I hope that this was
that if you hit the like button I would
appreciate that very much I'm sick I'm
bringing this information to you I don't
stop and I'll see you on the next one
take care